<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2>Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Chinese</i>: Hie li shán ching yu: tung sin ní pien kin.</p>
					<p><i>Literally</i>, By combined strength, a mountain becomes gems: by united hearts, mud turns to gold.</p>
					<p>[A maxim often painted on the door-posts of a Chinese firm—which may be freely translated—Two heads, working together, out of commonplace materials, bring <b>The Gilded Age</b>. <a href="halftitlepage.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p><i>Chippeway</i>: “He owns much land.”</p>
						<cite>—Baraga.</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Ethiopic</i>:“It behoveth Christian people who have not children, to take up the children of the departed, whether youths or virgins, and to make them as their own children,” etc. <cite>—<i>The Didascalia</i> (translated by <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T.</abbr> Platt), 121.</cite> <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Old French</i>: [Pantagruel and Panurge, on their voyage to the Oracle of Bacbuc, are frightened by seeing afar off, “a huge monstrous physeter.” “Poor Panurge began to cry and howl worse than ever.] Babillebabou, said he, [shrugging up his shoulders, quivering with fear, there will be the devil upon dun.] This will be a worse business than that the other day. Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me, if it is not Leviathan, described by the noble prophet Moses, in the life of patient Job. It will swallow us all like a dose of pills.… Look, look, it is upon us. Oh! how horrible and abominable thou art! … Oh, oh! Devil, Sathanas, Leviathan! I cannot bear to look upon thee, thou art so abominably ugly.” <cite>—Motteaux’s Translation</cite> <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Sindhi</i>: “Having removed the little daughter, and placed her in their own house, they instructed her.” <cite>—<i>Life of Abdul-Latif</i>, 46 (cited in Trumpp’s Sindhi grammar, p. 356)</cite> <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>French proverb</i>: He would dry snow in the oven, to sell it for table salt. <cite>Quitard, 193</cite> <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Chinese</i>: [Shap neen tseen sze, ke fan sun.] The affairs of ten years past, how often have they been new.</p>
					<p><i>Chippeway</i>:</p>
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>“So blooms the human face divine,</span>
							<br/>
							<span class="i1">When youth its pride of beauty shows:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Fairer than Spring the colors shine,</span>
							<br/>
							<span class="i1">And sweeter than the virgin rose.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite>Ojibwa Hymns. (<abbr>Am.</abbr> Tract Society), p. 78</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-6.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Italian</i>: When I saw thee for the first time, it seems to me that paradise was opened, and that the angels were coming, one by one, all to rest on thy lovely face, all to rest on thy beautiful head; Thou bindest me in chains, and I cannot loose myself. <cite>J. Caselli, Chants popul de l’Italie, 21</cite> <a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p><i>Choctaw</i>: “Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance.”</p>
						<cite>Joshua, xiii. 7</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Eskimo (Greenland)</i>, from Fabricius’s translation of Genesis: “And when he had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.”</p> <cite>First Book of Moses, xlix. 32</cite> <a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Eskimo</i>: “And said, ‘Whose daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee.’” <cite>Gen. xxiv. 23</cite> <a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Massachussetts Indian</i> (Eliot’s version of Psalm xlv. 10): “Harken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father’s house.” <a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Italian</i>: “Jeannette answered: ‘Madam, you have taken me from my father and brought me up as your own child, and for this I ought to do all in my power to please you.” <a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Japan</i>: Though he eats, he knows not the taste of what he eats. <a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Egyptian</i> (from the Book of the Dead, or Funereal Ritual, edited by Lepsius from the Turin papyrus; translated by Birth): “The Preparation in the West. The Roads of the West.” <a href="chapter-12.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>From Thomas Makin’s <i>Description of Pennsylvania</i> (Descriptio Pensylvaniae) 1729. Translated[?] by Robert Proud:</p>
						<p>
							<span>“Fair Philadelphia next is rising seen,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Between two rivers place’d, two miles between,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The Deleward and Sculkil, new to fame,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Both ancient streams, yet of a modern name.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The city, form’d upon a beauteous plan,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Has many houses built, tho’ late began;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Rectangular the streets, direct and fair;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And rectilinear all the ranges are.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p><i>Italian</i> (translated by Wiffen—from Tasso):</p>
						<p>
							<span>“Of generous thoughts and principles sublime,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Amongst them in the city lived a maid,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The flower of virgins, in her ripest prime,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Supremely beautiful! but that she made</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Never her care, or beauty only weighed</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In worth with virtue.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite><i>Jerusalem Delivered</i>, c. ii, st. 14</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Latin</i>: [Celsus] I think the healing art ought to be based on reason to be sure, and too that it should be founded on unmistakable evidences, all uncertainties being rejected, not from the serious attention of a physician, but from the very profession itself. <a href="chapter-15.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Egyptian</i> (from the Book of the Dead), in Birch’s translation: “I have come.” “<em>Make Road</em> expresses what I am” (i.e. is my name). <a href="chapter-16.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Tamachekh (Touareg)</i>: From an improvisation by a native poet, at Algiers; printed by Hanoteau, <i>Essai de Grammaise de Langeu Tamachek</i>, p. 207.</p>
					<p>—If she should come to our country (the plains), there is not a mah who would not run to see her. <a href="chapter-18.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p><i>Romance</i>:</p>
						<p>
							<span>—“Enough! she cries, henceforth thou art</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The friend and master of my heart.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>No other covenant I require</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Than this: ‘I take thee for my wife.’</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That done, enjoy thy heart’s desire,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of me and mine the lord for life.</span>
						</p>
						<cite>A. Bruce Whyte’s paraphrase</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-18.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>German</i>: from the <i>Book of Songs</i> (Angelique, 4) of Heine.</p>
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>“Oh how rapidly develop</span>
							<br/>
							<span>From mere fugitive sensations</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Passions that are fierce and boundless,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Tenderest associations!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Tow’rds this lady grows the bias</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of my heart on each occasion,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And that I’m enamoured of her</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Has become my firm persuasion.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-19.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>

				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Old Irish</i>: from the <i>Annals of the Four Masters</i> (vol. vi., p. 2298). O’Donovan translates:</p>
					<p>—“A sweet-sounding trumpet; endowed with the gift of eloquence and address, of sense and counsel, and with the look of amiability in his countenance, which captivated every one who beheld him.”</p> <a href="chapter-20.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>[Let each one know how to follow his own path.] <a href="chapter-21.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>“Is there on earth such a transport as this,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When the look of the loved one avows her bliss?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Can life an equal joy impart</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To the bliss that lives in a lover’s heart?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>O! he, be assured, hath never proved</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Life’s holiest joys who hath ever loved!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Yet the joys of love, so heavenly fair,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Can exist but when honor and virtue are there.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite>Translated by Richardson</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><i>Hawaiian</i>: Love is that which excels in attractiveness (is much better than) the dish of poi and the fish-bowl (the favorite dishes of the Islanders). <a href="chapter-22.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Sioux-Dakota</i> (from Riggs’s translation of Bunyan’s <i>Pilgrim’s Progress</i>).
					<table epub:type="z3998:drama">
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Christian</td>
							<td>This town of Fair-Speech—I have heard of it; and as I remember, they say it’s a wealthy place.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">By-Ends</td>
							<td>Yes, I assure you that it is; and I have very many rich kindred there.</td>
						</tr>
					</table>
					<p><a href="chapter-24.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p><i>Assyrian</i>: “A place very difficult.”</p>
						<cite>Smith’s <i>Assurbanipal</i>, p. 269 (l. 90)</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-25.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Tamul</i>: Money is very scarce. <a href="chapter-26.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p><i>Egyptian</i>: “Things prepare I. I prepare a road.”</p>
						<cite>Book of the Dead, xliv. 117. 1, 2</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p><i>Greek (post-classical)</i>:</p>
						<p>
							<span>“And when he saw his eyes were out,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>With all his might and main,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He jumped into <em>another</em> bush,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And scratched them in again.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-27.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Danish proverb</i>: “He who would buy sausage of a dog, must give him bacon in exchange.”</p>
					<p><i>German</i>: “Thrasyllus, with his unaided intellect, would not have succeeded; but such worthies can always find rogues who for money will lend brains, which is just as well as to have brains of their own.” <a href="chapter-29.xhtml#noteref-23" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p><i>Italian</i>: in Wiffen’s translation:</p>
						<p>
							<span>“I nurse a mighty project: the design</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But needs thy gentle guidance to commend</span>
							<br/>
							<span>My hopes to sure success; the thread I twine;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Weave thou the web, the lively colors blend;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What cautious Age begins, let Dauntless Beauty end.”
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p><i>Provençal</i>: “Fair lady, your help is needful to me, if you please.” <a href="chapter-30.xhtml#noteref-24" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-25" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p><i>Italian</i>: from the <i>Jerusalem Delivered</i>, c. vi. st. 76:</p>
						<p>
							<span>“It would be some humanity to stand</span>
							<br/>
							<span>His dutiful physician! what delight</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Would it not be to lay thy healing hand</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Upon the young man’s breast!”</span>
						</p>
						<cite>Wiffen</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p><a href="chapter-31.xhtml#noteref-25" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
